A quick post on WTF submission guidelines
------------

responding on the various WTF comments. I have been discussing the idea of ground rules with some people, so let's try to frame some.

1) The story must have an element of the bizarre, that makes me go "WTF? really ? you must be kidding ?". if the story is funny and makes me laugh, that's a huge bonus.

2) It has to be real, i.e. a personal experience, or a news report, or even a picture taken by someone with some hope of not being a fake. We have enough experience spotting fakes now that we can weed out the obvious ones immediately

3) No pornography please. Again the border-line here has been shifting. What might have qualified as "racy" when we were growing up is now , well .... WTF :) but this is a social consensus issue.

4) It should not be laughter at the expense of a group of ordinary people. This is very important; sometimes when we laugh at public figures and their antics, we end up troubling the people they represent. This applies to sincere (though borderline absurd) statements made by RSS, BJP, and Muslim leaders. The line can certainly get hard to draw, but it's there, and we are all blessed with good education and experiences enough to know where it is. On the other hand, if a politician develops a foot-in-mouth disease, purely in his or personal capacity, hey why not. It's fair game. I cannot find a good english phrase for this, so am going to use a hindi one : "kisi aam aadmi ko dukh na do"

5) The editor (or editorial-committe) decision is final. Not everything can be left up to voting. After all, WTF (and other such forums) are public presence, even though we have (relatively weak) password security. Truly scurrilous material on such a forum can even trigger hate-speech issues. So the barrier to entry has to be maintained by people of judgement and good taste.

As a matter of procedure, I have - as an editor - flatly pushed back against entries which failed some of these (so far implicit) critieria. In borderline cases I have bent to the will of an insistent submitter and/or people who supported the submission.
